
Greetings Friends --

My name is Kirby Urner, and it has been my ongoing 
privilege to serve as a Clarusway instructor along 
the Data Analysis and Visualization Track.

I bring a lot of experience teaching, and using Python
to this work.  We meet live, online, for many hours 
each week, during our most intensive period.  I am one
of a sequence of instructors you will encounter, in 
your journey of self reinvention.

I also share materials asynchronously, via a shared 
Slack channel and through my Github repository.  We 
use Slack during our Zoom meetups as well.

The Clarusway curriculum is well designed, and I enjoy
being your tour guide within the Python ecosystem, 
where we explore "array based computing", a defacto 
standard way of programming in data science.

We start out with numpy right away, but I also do 
background forays into topics in core Python, helping
you build your Python chops even as we start our climb
through these tools specifically designed for data 
scientists.

Numpy lets you treat a whole rectangle of numbers as
a single object.  We think in terms of rows and columns.
From there we move to pandas, which is built around 
numpy and which exercises a lot of the same kinds of
thinking.

Once you have a serious understanding of array based 
computing and its application to statistical processes,
we dive into data visualization.  Our ability to summarize
and make decisions depends on visualizations and the 
stories they tell.

Throughout this tour of the core technologies, I take
frequent side trips into neighboring areas.  None of these
tools would be as easy to use were it not for Jupyter Labs
and Jupyter Notebooks.  Once these topics are introduced,
the door is open to LaTeX and Regular Expressions.  We
start using databases.  We start talking about SQL and 
SQLite.

What I know many students will experience, as I do from 
time to time, is a sense that there's an overwhelming 
amount to know, and the tools are always changing.  However
this is also your opportunity.  No one knows it all, and 
there's always a way to start fresh on the ground floor 
and get competitive, such that your skills are in demand.  
What you need is to make smart investments with your time.  
Train with tools that fit together, and which are likely 
to stay around for awhile.  Clarusway has that figured 
out for you.

I do not work alone along this Clarusway Data Analysis 
and Visualization Track.  You will have mentors.  You 
will have other students.  You have our ever growing and 
continually updated stash of relevant resources, 
including our instructor videos.  You will be able to 
interact with your mentors, and other students, in real
time.  At the same time, enough of the curriculum is 
self paced to give that sense of freedom and convenience
that comes with distance education.

I join the Zoom meetups coming from Portland, Oregon, a city
known for its thriving hardware and software businesses.
My background is in harvesting medical data for statistical
analysis, in the context of a large hospital system.  I've
also written a lot of client-specific computer database 
applications.  I started using Python back in the 1990s,
with version 1.6.  I have experience with many languages,
and with serving in a teacher and trainer capacity.

I will be following the well designed Clarusway curriculum 
while sometimes bringing my own experience and perspective 
to the material, giving you whatever insights I hope might 
be useful to you.  I want to be one of your resources and 
guides.  I look forward to your joining us.
